Consul
======

.. versionadded:: 0.1

`Consul <https://www.consul.io/>`_ is used in the project to coordinate service
discovery, specifically using the inbuilt DNS server.

Upgrading
---------

.. versionadded:: 1.0

Mantl 1.0 includes Consul v0.6.3. If you are running Mantl 0.5.1, you'll need to
run the ``playbooks/upgrade-consul.yml`` playbook before reprovisioning your
cluster to 1.0 in order to ensure a smooth upgrade.

Upgrades from releases prior to Mantl 0.5.1 have not been tested.

Variables
---------

You can use these variables to customize your Consul installation. You'll
typically want to set at least :data:`consul_dc`, :data:`consul_servers_group`,
and :data:`consul_gossip_key`. These variables are roughly sorted from most
commonly used to least.

.. data:: consul_dc

   If set, consul will advertise this datacenter (default ``dc1``)

.. data:: consul_dc_group

   The group to look in for the local datacenter. Using the Terraform plugins,
   this should be ``dc=dcname``, and it will default to that with the current
   datacenter name.

.. data:: consul_servers_group

   Group to configure join IPs from. For example, if this value is
   ``consul_servers``, IPs will be calculated from the hosts in that group and
   added to the list of servers to join. Defaults to ``role=control``.

.. data:: consul_gossip_key

   If set, this is used to encrypt gossip communication between nodes. This is
   unset by default, but you *really should* set one up. You can get a suitable
   key (16 bytes of random data encoded in base64) by running ``openssl rand 16
   | base64``.

.. data:: consul_advertise

   IP address Consul will advertise as available for other nodes to connect to.
   Defaults to the value of ``private_ipv4`` (from terraform inventory).

.. data:: consul_is_server

   Whether this node should be a server (``true``) or an agent (``false``).
   (default ``true``)

.. data:: consul_bootstrap_expect

   The number of servers to expect to join the cluster before bootstrapping.
   This is used in place of a two-phase bootstrap (where one node bootstraps and
   then restarts as a regular server.) This is set by default to be the number
   of servers in :data:`consul_servers_group`, but can be changed where the
   situation warrants (for example if you have *many* servers, you may want to
   set this to be a low number like 3.)

.. data:: retry_join

   Automatically generated by the calculation described in
   :data:`consul_servers_group`, but you can override it for custom behavior.

.. data:: consul_enable_tls

   If (``true``) use TLS to verify the authenticity of servers and clients.
   (default ``false``)

.. data:: consul_ca_file

   File name of a PEM-encoded certificate authority. Only used when
   :data:`consul_enable_tls` is ``true``.

.. data:: consul_cert_file

   File name of a PEM-encoded certificate. Only used when
   :data:`consul_enable_tls` is ``true``.

.. data:: consul_key_file

   File name of a PEM-encoded private key. Only used when
   :data:`consul_enable_tls` is ``true``.
